lib-glem(3) -- API documentation for glem(1)
============================================


SYNOPSIS
--------
	#include <glem.h>

	void glem_init(int glcd_width, int glcd_height, int flags);
	void glem_write(uint8_t *buf, int len);
	void glem_setpix(int x, int y, int color);


DESCRIPTION
-----------
The application software will have to include `glem.h` and replace low level
SPI/I2C driver calls such as `glcd_write` or `glcd_setpix` with the suitable
alternatives provided by lib-glem to communicate with the server. See glem(1)
for more details.


INTERFACE
---------
glem provides the following API to communicate with the server. The server
has to be launched before any of the following calls can be made.

* void **glem_init**(int glcd_width, int glcd_height, int flags);:
	Sets up state variables. Must be called before any other glem calls.

* void **glem_write**(uint8_t *buf, int len);:
	writes the frame buffer pointed to by _buf_ of lenth _len_ into the
	display. The frame buffer has to be properly encoded (see _DATA
	ENCODING_) to get desired output on screen.

* void **glem_setpix**(int x, int y, int color);:
	sets pixel _(x,y)_ with _color_.


DATA ENCODING
-------------
Most commercially available GLCDs are 1 bit per pixel packed into bytes in two
different ways.
1. Row Major - MSB of first byte is pixel (0,0) and LSB is pixel (7,0). Second
   byte represents pixels (8,0) to (15,0) and so on.
2. Column Major - MSB of first byte is pixel (0,0) and LSB is pixel (0,7).
   Second byte represents pixels (1,0) to (1,7) and so on.

**Note:** Here, assume that origin (0,0) is at top left corner of the GLCD.

In both cases, typical application layer code has an array to store the bit map
value. The length of the array would be, `buf_len = (glcd_width*glcd_height)/8`

This buffer is what your embedded device writes out to the GLCD through the
SPI/I2C bus. The glem server expects to receive this buffer to render the
image.


BUGS
----
Report bugs to <siddharth@embedjournal.com> or Create an issue at
https://github.com/cbsiddharth/glem.git/


AUTHOR
------
Written by Siddharth Chandrasekaran <siddharth@embedjournal.com>.


ALSO SEE
--------
glem(1)
